in 1981
party clown and aspiring stand-up
comedian arthur fleck
lived with his mother penny in gotham
city
gotham is rife with crime and
unemployment leaving swathes of the
population disenfranchised and
impoverished
arthur suffers from a medical disorder
that causes him to laugh at
inappropriate times
after a gang of delinquents attacks
arthur in an alley his co-worker randall
gives him a gun for protection
arthur pursues a relationship with his
neighbor single mother sophie dumont
and invites her to his upcoming stand-up
routine at a nightclub
while entertaining at a children's
hospital arthur's gun falls out of his
pocket
randall lies that arthur bought the gun
himself and arthur is fired
on the subway still in his clown makeup
arthur is beaten by three drunken wayne
enterprises businessmen
he shoots two in self-defense and wounds
the third before pursuing him off the
train
and executing him on the stairs the
killings are condemned by billionaire
mayoral candidate thomas wayne
who calls those envious of more
successful people clowns
demonstrations against gotham's rich
begin with protesters donning clown
masks in arthur's image
sophie attends arthur's stand-up routine
which goes poorly
he laughs uncontrollably and has
difficulty delivering his jokes
arthur's idol popular talk show host
murray franklin
mocks arthur by showing clips from the
comedy routine on his show
arthur intercepts a letter written by
penny to thomas
alleging that he is thomas's
illegitimate son
arthur goes to wayne manor where he
meets thomas's young son bruce
but flees after a scuffle with the
family butler alfred pennyworth
following a visit from two gotham city
police department detectives
investigating arthur's involvement in
the train murders
penny suffers a stroke and is
hospitalized arthur sneaks into a
private event and confronts thomas
who tells him that penny is delusional
and not his biological mother
in denial arthur visits arkham state
hospital and steals penny's case file
the file says penny adopted arthur as a
baby and allowed her abusive boyfriend
to harm them both
however penny claims that thomas used
his influence to fabricate the adoption
to hide their affair
distraught arthur returns home and
enters sophie's apartment unannounced
frightened sophie tells him to leave the
following day
arthur kills penny at the hospital
arthur is invited to appear on murray's
show due to the unexpected
popularity of his comedy routine clips
on route to the studio arthur is pursued
by the two detectives onto a train
filled with clown protesters one
detective accidentally shoots a
protester and
incites a riot allowing arthur to escape
the rioters brutally beat the detectives
as arthur leaves
before the show goes live arthur
requests that murray introduce him as
joker
a reference to murray's previous mockery
arthur walks out
to applause but starts telling morbid
jokes confesses to the train murders
rants about how society abandons the
downtrodden and mentally ill
and berates murray for mocking him on
the previous segment
when murray criticizes him and threatens
to call the police
arthur shoots him twice on live
television killing him
he is arrested for murder as riots break
out across
gotham one of the rioters corners the
wayne family in an
alley and murders thomas and his wife
martha
sparing bruce rioters in an ambulance
crash into the police car carrying
arthur
freeing him he stands atop the car
dances to the cheers of the crowd
and smears blood on his face in the form
of a smile
hud arkham arthur laughs to himself
about a joke and tells his psychiatrist
she would not understand it
he runs from orderlies leaving behind a
trail of bloodied footprints
you